---

copyright:
  years: 2019, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-10-11"

keywords: schematics activity tracker events, schematics events, schematics audit, schematics audit events, schematics audit logs

subcollection: schematics

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:pre: .pre}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:important: .important}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:download: .download}
{:preview: .preview}

# {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} events
{: #at_events}

As a security officer, auditor, or manager, you can use the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} service to track how users and applications interact with {{site.data.keyword.bplong_notm}}.
{: shortdesc}

{{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} records user-initiated activities that change the state of a service in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. You can use this service to investigate abnormal activity and critical actions and to comply with regulatory audit requirements. In addition, you can be alerted about actions as they happen. The events that are collected comply with the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard. For more information, see the [getting started tutorial for {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}](/docs/Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA?topic=Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA-getting-started).

## List of events
{: #schematics-events}

The following list of {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} events are sent to {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}.
{: shortdesc}

| Action             | Description      | 
|:-------------------|:-----------------|
| `schematics.workspace.create` | A {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} workspace is created or failed to create. | 
| `schematics.workspace.read`| A {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} workspace is viewed by a user.|
| `schematics.workspace.update`| A {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} workspace updated successfully or failed to update.|
| `schematics.workspace.delete` | A {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} workspace was deleted or failed to delete. | 
| `schematics.workspace.plan` | A Terraform execution plan was created for a workspace. | 
| `schematics.workspace.apply` | A Terraform execution plan was applied in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} or failed to apply.|
| `schematics.workspace.destroy` | {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resources are deleted successfully or failed to delete.|
{: caption="Table 1. Overview of {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} actions that generate {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} events" caption-side="top"}

</br>
**Important**: 
When you create, delete, or update a workspace, the following events are also created by a {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}}-owned service ID and sent to {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}.  
* An event with the action `schematics.instance.create` when a workspace is created.
* An event with the action `schematics.instance.update` when a workspace is modified.
* An event with the action `schematics.instance.delete` when a workspace is deleted.



## Viewing events
{: #at_ui}

Events that are generated by {{site.data.keyword.bplong_notm}} are automatically forwarded to your {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} service instance. Because {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} sends events to the **US South** region only, you must create an instance of {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} in the **US South** region to view event details. 
{: shortdesc}

1. Create a service instance of [{{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}}](/docs/Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA?topic=Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA-getting-started) in the **US South** region. 
2. [Launch the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} web console](/docs/Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA?topic=Activity-Tracker-with-LogDNA-launch) to access your events.



