---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2022
lastupdated: "2022-11-28"

keywords: schematics job queue, job queue process, pending queue, schematics pending queue

subcollection: schematics

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Job queuing in {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}}
{: #job-queue-process}

## About the {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} job queue
{: #about-job-queue}

When a user runs a {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} operation, jobs are queued on a  a shared service queue. A job remains in the queue until workers are available in the targeted regions to execute the job. Scheduling policies are applied to jobs to ensure the service is equitably available to all users.

## Functioning of job queue
{: #functions-job-queue}

Depending upon the workload that is generated by the user and the time to run the jobs, the consumer can experience delays. The job queue ensures that {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} is equitably available to all its users regardless of the load generated by a user. 

Example

If an `user-1` has 20 jobs waiting in the queue, and `user-2` submits a new job. `User-2` job waits into a queue, ahead of `user-1's` 20 jobs to make {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} equitably available for both `user-1` and `user-2`.

## When does the job enter into the pending queue?
{: #pending-job-queue}

Following are the tasks of the job when it enter into pending queue.
- your job requires more time to complete. Check that enough time is specified for the job to execute.
- your image that is used by your job run does not exist. Check that the provided image details exist and right name is specified.
- The environment variable parameters that are required by the job are not specified. Check that the environment variables are defined.
- The commands or arguments that are passed to the job are not valid. Check that the argument flags specified are correct.

## Timeout
{: #job-queue-timeout}

The Terraform jobs such as plan, apply, and destroy on a workspace should not generally take more than few hours to provision or deprovision the resources. If you are provisioning many resources simultaneously, which takes time in number of hours, it is suggested to split the resources into different workspaces. {{site.data.keyword.bpshort}} limits the execution time of a job to 24 hours. After 24 hours the jobs are terminated and the job is marked as `STOPPED` and workspace shows `ACTIVE`, or `INACTIVE`.

In the point of transition of the state file of `24 hours`, an interrupt signal is sent to the command execution. A graceful period of `10 minutes` is given for the command to finish. If not, a kill signal is sent and the job is stopped. A refresh is done after stopping the state file and other data is collected at the end. This is helpful, in cases where a Terraform command is stuck forever and user doesn't intervene.

In a job, multiple commands such as `terraform init`, `terraform apply`, and `terraform refresh` are executed. If the job times out in a command, all further commands gets only `10 minutes` to finish. At the end of `10 minutes`, each command is killed. 

Example 
If a job is stuck forever on a Terraform apply, when the command is stopped, and if you run a refresh. If refresh is also stuck, after `15 minutes`, a kill is executed. The Terraform `local exec` and `remote exec` already have a time limit of `30 minutes`.
